Improve cluster pool creating document (#164)
openshift/ci-docs: content/en/docs/how-tos/cluster-claim.md

description: How to create a cluster pool from which a job can claim a cluster.
---

> `ci-operator` [allows](https://docs.ci.openshift.org/docs/architecture/ci-operator/#testing-with-a-cluster-from-a-cluster-pool)

Reviewer: super nit: i just let my editor line-wrap, it's nice

CI jobs that need an OCP cluster for testing to claim a pre-installed one from so-called _"cluster pools"_
using [Hive](https://github.com/openshift/hive). This document describes how to set up custom pools backed by custom
cloud platform accounts owned by users or teams that want their jobs to use clusters provisioned with these custom
accounts.

## Prerequisites

* Verify that the cloud platform you want to use is supported
  by [Hive](https://github.com/openshift/hive#supported-cloud-providers)
* [Configure the cloud account](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.7/installing/installing-preparing.html):
  Hive does not require more configuration of the cloud account than installing an OpenShift cluster. Make sure that the
  account has quotas for the pools to contain the desired number of clusters.

## Instructions

> OpenShift CI Hive instance is deployed on a dedicated OpenShift cluster, called `hive` and all resources involved in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OpenShift CI Hive instance is deployed on a dedicated OpenShift cluster, called `hive` and all resources involved in
```

> creating and running a custom cluster pool need to be created there. This is done via GitOps in the openshift/release

Reviewer: ```suggestion
creating and running a custom cluster pool need to be created there. This is done via GitOps in the `openshift/release`
```

repository.

> ### Prepare your cloud platform credentials

Reviewer: nit: title-case

> First, you need to make sure your cloud platform credentials (that will be used to install cluster for the pool) are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you need to make sure the cloud platform credentials that will be used to install cluster for the pool are
```

   in [collection self-service](https://selfservice.vault.ci.openshift.org/).
2. In the selected collection, create a secret with the necessary keys and values. The specific needed keys depend on
   the cloud platform; consult the
   Hive [Cloud Credentials](https://github.com/openshift/hive/blob/master/docs/using-hive.md#cloud-credentials)
   document.
3. Set `secretsync/target-clusters` key to `hive` to make sure your credentials are only synced to one cluster needed.
4. Set `secretsync/target-namespace` key to a name of the namespace that will hold your pools (`$team-cluster-pool` is a
   good baseline name).
5. Set `secretsync/target-name` to a name under which the secret will be accessible in the
   cluster (`$platform-credentials` is a good baseline name).

At the end, you should have a secret similar to the following in Vault:

#### selfservice/dptp-demo-collection/dptp-demo-pool-credentials:

```json
{
  "aws_access_key_id": "AWS KEY ID",
  "aws_secret_access_key": "AWS ACCESS KEY",
  "secretsync/target-clusters": "hive",
  "secretsync/target-name": "demo-aws-credentials",
  "secretsync/target-namespace": "dptp-demo-cluster-pools"
}
```

> ### Create a directory for your manifests

Reviewer: nit: title-case

1. In the openshift/release repository, create a folder in
   the [`clusters/hive/pools`](https://github.com/openshift/release/tree/master/clusters/hive/pools) directory that will
   contain manifests of all your resources (

>    see [openshift-ci](https://github.com/openshift/release/tree/master/clusters/hive/pools/openshift-ci) as an example).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   see [`openshift-ci`](https://github.com/openshift/release/tree/master/clusters/hive/pools/openshift-ci) as an example).
```

2. Create `OWNERS` file in the directory to allow your teammates make and approve changes.
3. Create a manifest for the namespace that will hold your Hive resources (the namespace name must match the one where
   you instructed [Vault to sync your secret](#prepare-your-cloud-platform-credentials)).:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: dptp-demo-cluster-pools
```

> ### Create a manifest for your cluster pool

Reviewer: nit: title-case

  namespace: dptp-demo-cluster-pools
  labels: # architecture, cloud, owner, product, version are used to filter out a pool when a job claims a cluster
    architecture: amd64
    cloud: aws
    product: ocp
    owner: dptp-demo
    region: us-east-1 # the region where the cluster is installed, not yet used in label matching
    version: "4.7"
spec:
  baseDomain: dptp-demo.openshift.org # the base domain to install the cluster
  imageSetRef:
    name: ocp-4.7.0-amd64 # the name of the imageSet which determines the image to install the cluster
  installConfigSecretTemplateRef:
    name: dptp-demo-install-config # the name of the secret with an installation config for the installer
  skipMachinePools: true
  platform:
    aws:
      credentialsSecretRef:
        name: demo-aws-credentials # the name of the secret with the credentials of the cloud account
      region: us-east-1
  pullSecretRef:
    name: pull-secret
  size: 1 # the number of clusters that Hive should keep provisioned and waiting for use.
  maxSize: 10 # the maximum number of clusters that can exist at the same time.
```

Pay attention to the following stanzas:

> 1. `metadata.labels`: These labels will be used by jobs to specify what cluster they want to obtain for their testing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. `metadata.labels`: These labels, excluding `region`, will be used by jobs to specify what cluster they want to obtain for their testing.
```

Author: Hm, how about removing it from the example then? Adding a useless label to an instructional example only so that you need to point out that it is useless sounds... useless?

Reviewer 2: Removing it from the example is fine with me.

2. `spec.baseDomain`: A base domain for all clusters created in this pool. You usually create this domain yourself when

>    configuring the cloud platform account (see [prerequisites](#prerequisites)).

Reviewer 2: You usually create this domain yourself when
   configuring the cloud platform account

--->

This domain is managed by the account on the cloud platform.

Author: I'd rather not. 1) Active case is generally better readable 2) I really want to stress out that the user is responsible for this ("is managed" can mean anything).

Reviewer 2: In OpenShift doc, it is

https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.7/installing/installing_aws/installing-aws-account.html

For AWS:

> Create a public hosted zone for your domain or subdomain.

https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.7/installing/installing_azure/installing-azure-account.html#installation-azure-network-config_installing-azure-account

For Azure:

> create a public hosted zone for your domain or subdomain

https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.7/installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-account.html

For GCP:

> Create a public hosted zone for your domain or subdomain in your GCP project.

For the above clouds, `create a public hosted zone for your domain` sounds like more accurate description.
But then we might need to explain the zone? That is why i got "is managed".
Maybe in your definition: create a public hosted zone for your domain = create your domain?

Author: I changed to sentence to what you suggest ("created a public hosted zone for your domain")

3. `spec.imageSetRef`: A reference to a `ClusterImageSet` in the cluster that determines the exact version of clusters
   created in the pool. `ClusterImageSets` are cluster-scoped resources and their manifests are present
   in [`clusters/hive/pools`](https://github.com/openshift/release/tree/master/clusters/hive/pools) directory. Either
   select one of the already available, or create a new one. DPTP maintains a set of `ClusterImageSets` that are
   regularly bumped to most recent released OCP versions.
4. `spec.installConfigSecretTemplateRef`: a reference to a `Secret` that serves as an installation config template. See
   the [below section](#create-a-manifest-for-your-install-config-template-secret) for more information.
5. `spec.platform.$CLOUD.credentialsSecretRef`: A reference to the secret you created in
   the [Prepare your cloud platform credentials](#prepare-your-cloud-platform-credentials) section.
6. `pullSecretRef.name`: Must be kept `pull-secret`. OpenShift CI will populate your namespace with this secret that
   contains all pull secrets necessary to install an OCP cluster.

> #### Sizing your cluster pool

Reviewer: nit: title-case

> #### Sizing your cluster pool

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Sizing your cluster pool
```

Author: This is intentional, sizing the cluster is a subsection of `ClusterPool`

Hive maintains the number of clusters in the pool as specified by its `size`. A provisioned cluster will
be [hibernating](https://github.com/openshift/hive/blob/master/docs/hibernating-clusters.md) after staying idled for
some time and can be woken up if a job claims it. Hive removes it from the pool once it is claimed and creates a new

> cluster to maintain the pool's `size`. The cluster will be destroyed after 4 hours since it is claimed. If several jobs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cluster to maintain the pool's `size`. The cluster will be destroyed 4 hours after it is claimed. If several jobs
```

> claim a cluster simultaneously, Hive will feed all of them up until the number of living clusters reaches the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
file claims from one `ClusterPool` simultaneously, Hive will fulfill all claims until the number of living clusters reaches the
```

pool's `maxSize`.

> All clusters before destruction consume resources in the cloud account, so your `maxSize` should be set according to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All live and hibernated clusters consume resources in the cloud account, so your `maxSize` should be set according to
```

your cloud platform limits and quotas and presence of other cluster pools or other resource consumption in your cloud

> platform account.

Reviewer: we asked for a max in flight knob to allow limiting the number of installs and deprovisions happening at once to limit aws throttling - unclear if it's worth it to mention here

Author: I'm leaning towards not: rate limits are transparent to the user, the failures happen in background and are retried. Once the knob is exposed, we can add it.

> ### Create a manifest for your install config template secret

Reviewer: nit: title-case

> This secret is used via a reference from the [ClusterPool resource](#create-a-manifest-for-your-cluster-pool) and allows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This secret is used via a reference from the [`ClusterPool` resource](#create-a-manifest-for-your-cluster-pool) and allows
```

customizing the cluster, such as setting the number of workers or the type of instances. It is usually not necessary to
keep this manifest actually secret as it often does not contain anything sensitive.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: dptp-demo-install-config
  namespace: dptp-demo-cluster-pools
stringData:
  install-config.yaml: |
    apiVersion: v1
    compute:
    - architecture: amd64
      hyperthreading: Enabled
      name: worker
      platform: {}
      replicas: 3
    controlPlane:
      architecture: amd64
      hyperthreading: Enabled
      name: master
      platform: {}
      replicas: 3
    metadata:
      name: test01
    networking:
      clusterNetwork:
      - cidr: 10.128.0.0/14
        hostPrefix: 23
      machineNetwork:
      - cidr: 10.0.0.0/16
      networkType: OpenShiftSDN
      serviceNetwork:
      - 172.30.0.0/16
    publish: External
type: Opaque
```

### Submit a PR to openshift/release

Submit a PR to openshift/release with all your new manifests. After the PR merges, the manifests are committed to the
cluster and Hive starts installing clusters for your pool.

> ### Use the cluster pool from a jobs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use the cluster pool from a job
```

After the pool manifests are applied on the `hive` cluster, the cluster pool can by used by CI jobs by setting
a `cluster_claim` stanza with values matching the labels on the pool:

```yaml
...

> cluster_claim:

Reviewer 2: I would add the parent of `cluster_claim` here.
